# 201-Final
Final Project for Info 201
Our project delves into the complex relationship between education levels and poverty rates in the United States. This is intended for people aged 13 and up who are independent and able to responsibly use economic data of the United States to come up with meaningful observations and insights from the data. We carefully analyzed two datasets called education.csv and poverty.csv that provide insights into poverty rates, seeking correlations with education-related variables. The primary questions guiding our exploration include investigating the correlation between the education of an area and its poverty level, understanding how different levels of education percentage relate to county-wide poverty, examining whether a higher statewide education level corresponds to a lower poverty rate, and determining if completing a high school education significantly reduces the likelihood of poverty.

To answer these questions, we utilized data cleaning techniques, focusing on specific and columns in the dataset to ensure relevant data is used for our analysis. Incorporating a variety of visualization tools and plots such as bar graphs, line graphs, and mapping, we illustrated the  relationship between education and poverty. One thing we had to do was create a new variable from the previous ones, as some data columns were from different years in which we tried to create a new variable which was the average, used for the graphs. From the graph trends, our results suggested that poverty rates and education have an inverse relationship, shown through how the percentage of people in poverty within groups possessing a degree beyond a high school diploma is notably lower compared to individuals with only a high school education or less. Overall, this project provided many insights contributing to a clear understanding of the importance of education on societal impacts, and the significance of making sure as many people receive it.
